- Come on, pick up!
Pick up! Pick up!
[line trilling]
Oh, come on!
[phone rings]
- This is Kernst.
- Major, it's MacGruber.
You seeing this Ecuador shit?
- You son of a bitch!
- What?
- Oh, cut the crap.
You played me.
- Sir, the only thing
I've been playing
is with Vicki's beautiful
breasts and vagina
for ten straight hours,
minus bathroom breaks.
So you mind telling me what
the hell you're talking about?
- You sold us down the river.
This raid on Queeth's compound
was supposed to be
the end of this thing.
You said Brimstone
was contained.
- Uh, yeah, I thought it was.
But clearly someone
is still behind it!
Someone terribly evil.
Someone who has to be stopped.
- Oh, yeah.
I'm talking to him right now.
- Oh, thank God.
Okay, Kernst, listen carefully.
You have to keep him
on the line
and trace that telephone call
so we can find out
exactly where--
- MacGruber!
I'm talking about you.
- Oh, you're fucking insane!
- Special agents in Ecuador
found DNA
on a dispersal device,
and it's a presumptive match
to you!
- Come on, this is clearly
a frame job.
Queeth's final fuck you
from the grave.
You gotta believe me.
I'm one of the good guys.
I got nothing to hide.
- If that's true, then come
turn yourself in right now.
- You know I can't do that.
- Well, I guess we both know
how this is gonna end.
- Yeah, with you putting
a medal around my neck.
- Or a bullet in your head.
- Tomato, "toe-ma-toe."
- MacGruber, I'ma give you
one last chance.
Every law enforcement officer
in the country
will be looking for you,
and the orders
will be shoot to kill.
- Major, Queeth may be
dead now,
but someone is keeping
his plan in motion,
and you're seriously
asking me to stand down?
- I'm not asking.
- Well, in that case,
catch me if you can.
[dramatic music]
* *
- Put it up.
[dramatic music]
* *
- * MacGruber *
[fire crackles]
["O Christmas Tree" playing]
* *
- * Oh, Christmas tree *
- May I have this dance?
- Aww.
Oh, watch out
for the gingerbread house.
Spent all morning
on that thing.
- Sorry.
- Whoops.
[both laugh]
[baby babbles]
- God, I love our life.
- Well, that's good to hear
because I have some big news.
Dixon, I'm pregnant.
- We're all gonna die!
We're all gonna die!
- Oh, geez, thank God
you're still alive!
We are so fucked!
[baby cries]
- Aww, little one, don't cry.
Everything's okay.
[mouths words]
- Jesus Christ,
what are you guys doing here?
- Haven't you been
watching the news?
The poisonous cloud
over Ecuador?
Somehow Queeth's plan
is still on.
- That's impossible.
- Tens of thousands of people
have been reported dead,
and we can only assume
that number is going to rise
in the coming days.
- Holy shit.
But I thought Queeth was dead!
I thought this was over.
- Checkers, the only thing
that's over
is the amount that
this motherfucker is not over.
I mean, we are
in grave danger here!
Ooh, can I play with your baby?
- Authorities are looking
for this man--
former military officer
MacGruber.
- Oh, look,
there's Uncle MacGruber.
- Jesus, you're wanted?
- Oh, yeah, super wanted.
Like, shoot to kill.
Hell, I mean, for all I know,
they could have their scopes
on me right now.
Oh, look at that!
Is that your little playset,
bud?
Huh? Oh, that's so cute.
I'm jealous, and I'm an adult.
Huh? Is that--
Oh, what? No. Aww.
Now, let's focus up.
We got a terrorist to catch.
Now, I won't go as far
as to say that
this is a
"Mission: Impossible,"
but at the very least,
it's a "Mission: Very Hard."
No clues, no leads.
Hell, everyone we knew
who was involved
with the plan is dead now.
- Well...not everyone.
[dramatic music]
* *
- Everyone got their
covers down?
- Uh-huh.
- Yeah.
- Look, these are actual IDs
I stole from the NSA,
and I just tweaked them
a little bit.
So don't worry. We got this.
- ID, please.
So your name is Sharold?
- Of course my name is Sharold.
Sharold Kernst.
- Interesting name.
- It's a family name.
My grandmother was Sharold,
her mother and her aunts,
and most of her sisters,
and some of her sons.
Goes for all genders, really,
Sharold.
[tense music]
* *
Something wrong?
- No, it's just weird.
Both the S and the H
are capitalized.
- Yeah.
Uh, That's because
it's S. Harold Kernst.
- And the S stands for Sharold?
- Stands for Sharold.
- So your name
is Sharold Harold Kernst.
- Yep.
- And here you go,
Colonel Jebblidoh.
- Jebblidoo. Matias Jebblidoo.
- Sure.
And Private Fukk?
- Mm-hmm.
- Yep, Private David Fukk,
Wisconsin's own.
- Oh, I'm from Madison.
- Get out of town.
That's so fun!
Private Fukk,
isn't that so fun?
From Madison.
Tell him all about
the different Wisconsin
trivia that you know.
- Well, I guess
we should be leaving, so.
- Well, I don't know.
We got a little bit of time.
- Bye.
- Say goodbye, Private Fukk.
* *
- Hey, Vic.
- Yeah?
- You sure you don't
need me in there?
- Thanks, but I think
this is something
I need to do on my own.
- I understand.
Hey. Sharold.
- Yeah?
- Livestrong.
- Okay.
- Come on, give me five.
Yeah.
- Open 104!
* *
- Hello, Barrett.
- Victoria.
- Oh, shut up-a you face!
[tense music]
Put 'em on.
- Honey--
- Kee-yah!
I am not your honey, honey.
Not anymore.
And you are not my king.
So are we gonna do things
the hard way?
Or...
The harder way?
* *
It's your choice.
General.
[coughs]
- Just tell me
you once loved me.
I'll tell you whatever
you want to know.
- Sorry.
I don't negotiate
with terrorists.
- [grunts, coughs]
Queeth and his men are dead,
but the plan
is still proceeding.
Tell me what you know!
Goll dar, Barrett!
Who is executing
Queeth's goll dar plan?
- I don't know!
- That's a fib!
You're fibbing!
- I'm not fibbing.
I swear to you,
I'm not fibbing!
- Okay.
Looks like I'm gonna have to
take off the training wheels,
and sit down real hard
on the seat.
- [groans]
[coughs]
- You know what that is?
I think you do.
Yeah, I think you know
what that is.
Yeah.
That's your old pal, MacGruber.
- No!
No!
- Millions of lives
are at stake, Barrett.
Tell me what you know!
- I don't know anything.
- Tell me what you know!
Tell me what you know!
What do you know?
- Okay! Okay! I'll tell you!
I'll tell you everything!
- Thank you.
- Twenty years ago,
there was someone working
on the inside with Queeth.
I never knew who it was.
I only knew them
as the Architect.
But they controlled everything.
Everything.
- Tell me more about
this "The Architect."
- I don't know much.
[sniffles]
They covered their tracks
very well,
so I was never able to piece
the whole thing together.
But what I do know
is in my computer,
locked away in the NSA.
Sorry.
Wish I could tell you more.
- Apology not accepted.
- Vicki, please, don't go.
Vicki, please.
- Goodbye, Barrett.
[knocks on door]
- Victoria.
Victoria!
[sobbing]
* *
- Files you requested, sir.
- This everything?
- Not exactly.
This is everything.
- Jesus.
- If I may, sir,
any idea where he is?
- That's what I'm hoping
to find out.
Where the hell are you,
MacGruber?
[suspenseful music]
- Oh, hold that, will you?
Thank you. Are you going up?
- All the way to the top.
Isn't that right, Agent Piss?
- Mm-hmm.
[elevator dings]
[dramatic music]
* *
- Jesus.
[suspenseful music]
* *
- Shit. We'll never find it.
- They're alphabetized.
- What?
- Got it.
- [gasps]
- Nice job, Piss.
[dramatic music]
* *
- Who is this guy?
- Hurry up, Vic.
This computer might be
our only shot to find out
who the Architect is.
- I know, I'm sorry,
it's just going so slow!
Come on! Come on!
- Checkers, how we doing
with the 5-0?
- All doors are locked,
there's no movement
in Stairwell 6, so that's
our best bet for escape.
We make it to
the parking structure
and drive out the front gate
before anyone knows
we were here.
That's probably not
what'll happen,
but it's always good
to have a plan, I guess.
- Loud and.
[computer beeps]
- Shoot, shoot, shoot.
Guys, we have a problem.
We need his password.
- Oh, shit, shit, shit! Shit!
Okay, relax, Vicki.
Last thing we need
is a major freak-out right now.
Okay, so don't panic.
We'll get through
this together.
So try this. You ready?
- Yeah.
- Type in six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six, nine.
- Okay.
Six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six.
- Nine.
One final nine in there.
[computer beeps]
- Fuck.
Okay. Okay. Okay. No worries.
Let's just change it up
a little bit and go with this.
Six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine.
[computer beeps]
Shit fuck! Okay. Okay.
Six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six, nine.
[computer beeps]
Oh, God! Oh, God. Oh, God.
What do we do here?
Okay, okay, how about
just six, nine, six, nine?
Fuck!
[sentimental music]
* *
Six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine, six, nine,
six, nine,
six, nine.
Okay, try that.
No! Wait, wait, wait. Wait.
Six, nine.
Shit!
Well, it's official:
we're never gonna get in.
- Let me try something.
[computer beeps]
Oh, we're in!
- Nice on, Vic!
How many 69s was that?
- Uh, none.
He used
our wedding anniversary.
- Oh, your wedding anniversary.
- Yeah.
- Oh, what a fucking goober.
[laughs]
That's so dumb.
Jesus.
Ugh, just makes me barf
in my mouth a little bit.
I mean, anybody
could look that up.
It's public record.
That's the stupidest thing
I've ever seen.
So fucking dumb.
Okay, now do a search
for "architect" or "Queeth"
or maybe the word "plan"
or the phrase
"miscellaneous evil."
- On it.
- We're running out of time!
- Just a few more seconds!
[ominous music]
* *
- Oh, my God.
Family torn apart.
Mother murdered.
[suspenseful music]
* *
Son of a bitch.
- Got it!
- Yes!
- It might take me a while
to crack it, though.
It's encrypted.
[phone buzzes]
- Go for Grubs.
- Son, are you okay?
Your face is all over the news.
- I promise you, Dad,
it's all horsepucky.
- I know.
You could never
do something like this.
- Thanks, Dad.
But I think I know who did.
Have you ever heard
of an "The Architect?"
- Can't say I have.
Where'd you get that intel?
- Stopped by the pen today
and had a little chat
with Barrett Fasoose.
We're at the NSA right now
working his lead.
- No, you gotta
get out of there!
Don't you see? This is a trap.
Fasoose is setting you up!
- I appreciate your concern,
but we're right on the verge
of blowing this thing
wide open.
Then we can go to Kernst
and get back on the mission.
- Wait, Kernst is
running things now?
- Yeah.
- God.
MacGruber, that's your guy.
Kernst is your Architect.
- Daddy, I seriously
doubt that--
- Trust me, son.
It has to be Kernst.
Now, listen,
you gotta get out of there.
You're in real danger.
- Guys, I think we got
some movement over here.
- Shit. Dad, hold on.
- Okay, I'm gonna copy
the files to the drive,
but they're really big ones.
- Please go!
- Hang on, Dad. Hang on.
- Okay.
Just gotta drag,
drop this one over here.
Drag it. Drop it.
Drag it.
- Hang on, she's just
dragging and dropping.
- Drag it. Whoop.
Drag it. Drop it.
- Shit.
[tense music]
- Shit, we got company.
- Okay, sorry, Dad, gotta jump.
The pigs are porking it
up over here.
- MacGruber!
- Just a few more seconds!
- We don't have
a few more seconds!
- Okay. But the flash drive!
- Just leave it!
This will buy us some time.
[alarm blaring]
Go! Go!
[Vicky yells]
[dramatic music]
* *
- [yells]
Oh, my leg! Oh, fuck!
Good call on the water thing,
Piper.
Always playing checkers.
[door crashes open]
Oh, fuck! Go, go, go!
I'll meet you at the SUV!
Go, Vicki! Go!
- MacGruber!
- Oh, fuck!
[groaning]
Ahh!
[dramatic music]
* *
- MacGruber, stop.
I said stop!
[gunshot]
Don't move a muscle.
- Well, Major...
I guess you caught me
if you could.
- I guess I did,
Colonel Jebblidoo.
- You son of a bitch.
My dad warned me about you.
You're nothing
but a silver-tongued
snake oil salesman,
saying whatever it takes
to keep up the fucking grift.
You know what, I wish I had a
fucking sledgehammer right now
so I could splatter your brains
against the fucking wall
in a million pieces,
one for each of those
innocent people
who lost their lives
in Ecuador because of you!
- Are you done?
- Oh, I haven't even
started yet.
- Well, let me know
when you are,
so I can give you this.
- Vicki's hard drive.
I-I don't understand.
- Found it
in our evidence room.
We can't crack the files,
but maybe you can.
[heartfelt music]
Come on, Mac.
We're on the same team here.
* *
- Why are you doing this?
- I, um, I lost my mom too.
- I'm sorry.
What was her name?
- Elizabeth.
- Darcy.
What was her middle name?
- Look, Mac,
you don't have much time.
- Yes, no, you're right.
Yes.
- You take that, and you go
find that son of a bitch.
- I will.
* *
- Are you okay?
- It just doesn't
make any sense.
I mean, my dad was so sure
that Kernst was the Architect.
And my dad is just like me--
he doesn't make mistakes.
Hell, maybe Kernst
is just playing me.
Maybe this is all just
one big long con.
But why?
[sighs]
Something just doesn't add up.
What's the play here?
What's the fucking play?
- Oh, my God.
- MacGruber! Did you just toot?
- Nice try, Vic,
but you know as well as I do
that whoever smelt it
dealt it.
[mysterious music]
Whoever smelt it...
Dealt it.
Oh. My. God.
[dramatic music]
[voices overlapping]
Whoever smelt it dealt it.
- I know who The Architect is.
* *
My own fucking father.
[dramatic music]
* *